Thank you very much for your participation, thank you, thank you. Before we begin our session,
we do about five minutes of meditation, silent meditation. Then we started our open prayer,
with the other soul, with head by head, for now. Thank you, everyone, again.
[Music]
Thank you, everyone, again. Welcome. Thank you. And we follow this open prayer bullet.
You have this green bullet, or the seven-line prayer. Anyone has seven-line prayer and the lineage
prayers.
We recorded this bullet, page 14. The open prayer bullet is page 14, or the seven-line prayer.
[Music]
>> Again, thank you very much everyone. Again, as I said already, your
participation. Thank you very much. Your participation. Thank you so much again. Making
all your joyful effort for the Dharma and making arranging the time and participating. It is
wonderful.
It is beautiful. It is practicing Dharma. Dharma. And we are going to discuss the teaching
of the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni. Lineage Masters. According to my capabilities,
somebody I hope it will refresh, restenstiny, or be gently reminding of all your beautiful
memories of Dharma that you received from many great Masters. So, that's what we
are doing together. So, that means then we are perfectly gathered together as Sangha
communities. What in the teaching said? Sangha means support to each other, help to each
other, and inspire to meet each other, accord in the capabilities, and learn the teaching
and moving forward. So, that context we are doing that. So, it is very wonderful and beautiful.
And today, we are going to do what? Again, I am going to talk really teachings of the
great Master, his own Daju Rinpoche, which is teaching of the essence, teaching of the
Buddha Shakyamuni. And after that, we do the healing practices. Healing practices,
there are so many difficulties and troubles going in the world. And it is also not just
only the sickness, the troubles. There are so many emotional troubles. This is ongoing
such a vacuum in the samsara. It is not just only now. Throughout the history of the samsara,
there are always troubles of these mental problems as well as psychological problems
and physical problems that are part of the nature of the samsara. But what we can do?
One of the best tools to do is really do good activities, dharma practices. Dedicated to
that for all the beings, to our loved ones, our relatives, our friends, family members,
and all the country and beyond, all the beings of six realms. That is the practicing of dharma,
following the footsteps of the Bodhicchata. So, with this, again, that is what we do today.
And again, to do that, always in the teaching, remind that to all of us, is restrengthen our
beautiful motivation. Motivation of the joy in appreciation. Motivation of the Bodhicchata.
That is an addition. Motivation of the joy in appreciation is general, more common sense levels.
And that is the foundation of the Buddha teaching, the essence of the Buddha teaching.
Above that is the Bodhicchata, which is the extraordinary teaching of the gracious teacher,
Bodhicchaka Mani. Thinking of all the sentient beings, I am going to do the practice.
I am going to reflect with the teaching. I am going to start the teaching,
and contemplating, and meditating, and practices. That motivation is so powerful, important,
it really according to the teaching, it will turn the entirely game of our practices.
It becomes so powerful, so strong, so deep, and it reaches far beyond, that we even,
maybe not imagine, how far it is going. So, therefore, activate the Bodhicchata. Thinking of that.
And then, together with this, purity, understand.
Purity realization, in the teaching, always said, "See the purity."
Those teachings are known as three, whether status, whether body, whether speech,
whether verse, mind, and space, all five perfect, that many of you already know those five perfect,
perfect place, perfect teachings, perfect audience, all at a time, and as well as teachers.
Although, see, that means, not just a teacher who is speaking, who I am speaking, but who has to
think perfect,
but everything perfect, including yourself.
That means, we are not relying on the world of duality in the dogma status.
We are returning back to our origin status, origin state of the Buddha mind.
When we wake up that Buddha mind, and when you look to their own,
everything is in that status, five perfect, perfect teacher, perfect place, perfect teaching,
perfect time,
and as well as perfect audience. Those are five perfect in the teaching state.
So, either one is we should really think, or we are in that perfect status.
Kind of having that opening of those minds is so, in a teaching state, it is very important,
particularly with the practitioners of Vedayana.
Vedayana, we meditate that.
We visualize ourselves, which is known as creation stages.
We see entirely universal, ourself transform the deity.
That means, you become Buddha, or we become the Buddha.
That means, our own innate nature of the mind,
ordinary nature, free from the duality and obscuration, now,
wake up as it is.
So, that is, we have to do. Who will do? We have to do.
Ourself. And why we don't start right now?
Why waiting? Have to now.
With courage and commitment, with confidence.
That is known as the practicing dharma.
And the Vedayana teacher, often making, when you visualize the deity or creation stages,
always have the confidence or Vedara pride, P-R-I-D-E, Vedara pride, indestructible.
That means, what means indestructible?
Indestructible from the dualities,
not undermined, not shaken by the dualities,
doubt and hesitation, the skeptical and all that.
Those are obscurations, obstacles,
that under those emotions, the negative obscurations,
the duality undermines our goals from a long time now.
And now, we have to have the difference.
We have to change the chapter. We have to change the right directions
to do those. Those are really the teachings said.
So, we go forward, and now we follow the teaching of the great teacher,
his only Vinyurumaji. His teaching, as I said many times,
and you know that, I mean, it is not something.
I am talking, it is the essence of the teaching of the Buddha Kshaktya Muni
into the practice level. How to practice?
How to put the entire teaching of the Buddha?
That means, the Buddha gives the teaching age 35 until age 81,
or until he enters Mahaparin nirvana.
Those old teachings really can be summarized into this teaching.
It is practical level, practice, our meditation practices.
And that, as I said the other day, and you all know,
the entire Buddha teaching can be summarized into three,
which is morality, as well as concentrations and wisdoms.
Also in the teaching, how is it?
The extraordinary, extraordinary, extraordinary,
but the supreme, extraordinary, sorry, extraordinary morality,
extraordinary concentration, extraordinary wisdoms.
What that means? Generally, morality, concentration, and wisdoms we all have.
Everyone has generally had that. But this time, not just talking that,
something slightly more activated, more intensified by what?
Loving kindness, compassion, thinking of all the living beings,
we are going to be practicing morality. And thinking of all the beings,
we are concentrating, meditating, thinking of all the living beings.
We are seeing things exactly as it should be, or as it is.
Seeing, wisdom means what? See exactly as it is. Nothing underestimated, above estimated.
See simple nature, simple truth as it is. No cover-up, no making-up.
Simple, simple, organic, direct, fresh, natural as it.
When you see things that, both relative level, absolute level, that is known as wisdoms.
Seeing that clearly again, with thinking, with compassion, or thinking of all beings.
So therefore, whether teaching this morality, and as well as concentration,
and wisdoms are known as extraordinary moralities.
Extraordinary concentrations. Extraordinary wisdoms.
So those are really essence of this teaching is explaining all that.
So with this understanding, now, what last time we discussed.
Of course, as it says many times, you know all these things, many of you already know this.
But again, see it here. When you practice generally, what we need?
We need special support to actualize the practice of Dharma, special support.
Those support, and teaching one said, support from the physically,
support from the mentally, to support we need.
Physical support is at freedom, and ten luxuries, all those are physical support to do the practice
Dharma.
So that means, and that also of course, as in the teaching said, is very difficult to obtain.
But we have got beautiful life. We have 18 endowments. All that.
That is the perfect support of the Dharma practices. Physically support.
Is this enough? No. We need second.
Mental support. Mental support.
So before last week, what we discussed, we went through those physical support, really that.
Now, today explaining of this.
This started with the mental supporters.
Mental supporters. And that is what here.
We looked at this page here and said, and fifth line.
One, two, three, four, five, six. No, sixth line.
And we went until, I think, the fifth line.
Then we also discussed on the day, on the day, and Samsara according,
the first of the Buddha's teachings, the direction of the teacher of the Buddha Kya Kya Muni's
first teaching
is known as the poor noble truth.
Poor noble truth is suffering truth, cause of suffering truth.
So those are suffering truth, cause of suffering truth.
That is generally, of course, Buddha's teaching is very profound,
and very profound, and also very simple.
Poor's is very simple, suffering truth, cause of suffering truth.
Ami is very simple, direct.
But it is indicating, what we don't want, for example, in Samsara, we don't want suffering.
We, no one really likes suffering, unless we are mentally disturbed.
But then, we, since we don't like suffering, all sufferings,
but we have to also, we have to be smart to stop the cause of suffering.
That is what Buddha is highlighting, highlighting.
This suffering or difficult challenge coming in Samsara, not just coming by itself,
but casually, or somebody else doing, or yes, you can't relate, is arising.
It has cause, it has conditions.
Of course, in the condition of the difficulty challenges, even we don't want difficulty challenges.
We cannot stop it really coming, coming.
So, since we really don't like the difficulty, hardship, and troubles, or sufferings,
or fears, F-E-A-R-R, we have to avoid the cause.
We have to be smart with the cause.
Of course, it doesn't mean we should not avoid or try to stop the suffering or the fears,
but at the same time, we look at the cause.
Cause is then, what? Cause of suffering, truth.
Those are the negative emotions, negative emotions.
It is not somebody else putting us, it is creation of one's own self, directly or indirectly,
according to Buddhism. It is one's own creation, creating that.
Unknowingly we create, we are making more cause, more conditions, having more troubles, more
difficulties.
So, those are the cause of suffering, truth, and cause of suffering, truth.
Once we know that, then what the greatest teacher, the brother, the secretary of ministry said,
part truth, say sacred truth, and part truth.
So now, this one, sixth line, is part truth.
Now, we are trying to really eliminate it, or eliminate it, or eliminate it to stop the cause of
suffering, truth.
In order to do that, then here, somebody said here, say, the trust is the three jewels and an
infallible source of raffles.
So, that is the beginning to follow the part truth.
Now, I said earlier, there is two supports we need.
One is the physical support to practice Dharma, and the second is the mental support.
What is that mental support?
Mental support is our devotion, our interest is our paid, or F-A-T-T-H, F-A-I-T-H, paid, whatever
terminology we use, that we need.
So, how that will come? Paid and devotion, how it will come?
In the solid of our ego, clinging, duality, sometimes it is harder to burn or to come that light in
our heart.
Our heart is always kind of hard, strong, dense, dense, with surrounded by so many misconceptions,
such as doubt, hesitation, skeptical, analytics, and all those.
Really, it is just a completely shield up our mind.
How that will come?
In the teaching said, the great master, Jingu Lungpa, said, I mean, this generally,
the first is, so many in the teaching said, said that devotion or the fed is the number one.
But how that will develop the fed?
In the great master, Jingu Lungpa highlighted this.
He said, there are four ways that you can develop or light up the devotions.
And that is first is, having good friend or spiritual friend, if you are accompanying, associating
with spiritual friend, that is one.
Second is, have you contracted with some very decent, common sense person, an open mind?
That is second.
And the third is, because of those, you begin to open your knowledge and reading the books.
Different books, variety kind of books.
And fourth, fourth is, also you may be tired in the bored of these samsara situations.
Bored in the tired, the ongoing samsara situations.
Those four ways, it will turn our minds from the regular habit of parents toward spiritual and it
will bring some devotions or the fed.
So therefore, what in the teaching said, tracking rafuj, rafuji is the foundation of the dharma,
but the foundation of the rafuj is fed or the devotions.
And if you have that devotion, as I said, said, great master, jimilanga, sorry, highlight those
four.
Accompanying the spiritual friend, contract with the spiritual or teachers, teachers and open a
reading the books and it is seen the samsaras, difficulty in troubles.
All those four different ways then changed our mind.
And so then we take rafuji. To whom we take rafuji in Buddhism, then we will associate strongly
then to the Buddha dharma sangha.
Here the great master, his whole new number says, chok-san, so three, so three supermanas or three
jewels, jewels, which is then Buddha dharma sanghas.
And the Buddha is rafuji of enlightened beings. That means free from all the obscurations and the
obstacles and ego-clinging.
That is really the Buddha and that means full of love, compassion, wisdom. So that is the Buddha.
In the teaching, dharma is message or the teaching of the Buddha. It is best upon the, again, truth
, love and kindness, compassion, non-violence,
and how to bring peace and harmony in our own mind and to the others. That is really dharma.
And the sangha is the one who is dedicated to follow that, exploring the peace and harmony, respect
and appreciation to everyone.
So that is really the Buddha dharma sangha. And now, of course, you all know, they are not really
about the Buddha dharma sangha,
so I am not going to talk too much. That is this Buddha, Buddha and dharma and sangha.
And this Buddha is now, those are the, there is no difference between any Buddhism which has rafuji
to the dharma, Buddha dharma sangha.
There is everyone saying that there is no difference.
Then, in an inner level, according to where we are ready in the teaching, then this Buddha dharma
sangha is also termed, named as guru deva dakinis.
Those are, again, in the teaching, it is the same, different terminologies.
Guru is like Buddha, deity or the Yadams are like dharma and dakini as sangha members or dakini d
harmapalas as sangha members.
Those are in the teaching, in the inner level.
And mostly, in the second level, then even for example, guru deva sangha represents all the three
jewels, Buddha, dharma, sangha.
For example, guru deva sangha. The body of guru deva sangha is sangha.
The speech of guru deva sangha is dharma and the verse in the mind or compassion is then the Buddha
.
Thank you. And similarly, Buddha shakhyamunyus. Same thing.
Buddha, body of the Buddha is sangha member and his teachings are the dharma
and his realisation and fulfilment in world is Buddha.
So, that way, all within the one state is Buddha dharma sangha, all in one single state.
Therefore, always in the teaching said, when we see the guru deva sangha as in body member, all
three jewels, all the Buddhas
and then also any other those highly qualified teachers can be like as represented by the three
jewels, all in one
toilet. And when we take this rafuj, how long we keep this connection to the Buddha dharma sangha?
Until we reach enlightenment.
Until we got the realisations. From now on, until we reach enlightenment. So, that is really.
And then, of course, there is many, that you do that according Buddhism, you do that every day.
Once in your self, in your own room or your own palace, at least take rafuj one time, that means
three times.
Kind of thinking of that. I said rafuj in the Buddha dharma sangha in order to benefit all living
beings.
This is kind of thinking of that. And those are known as then, then taking rafuj, this, this, this.
So, these three jewels and then Buddhas are the infallible, or the three jewels are infallible here
.
Intelligible source of rafuj. Why it means? Because Buddha is totally enlightened beings.
That means, as you all know, is free from the ego-clinging, free from the negative emotions, free
from the old,
they are all the kind of like expectations, expectations that Buddha's love, compassion, wisdom is
free, open
to all the living beings without any discriminations, without any judgements.
And Buddha's love is true for sentient beings. According to teaching, it all means the same as
Mother loves to her own one child.
As love, her own one child. So, this is really love and compassion is equal.
And Buddha sees things, everything, exactly as it is. Both relative level and absolute level.
Therefore, then Buddha is infallible, protective, and for therefore we trust.
Trust. All the teachings are perfect, invested upon the non-volence, invested upon the ego-lessness
status,
invested upon the peace and harmonious, and it is just equal to everyone.
So therefore, then teaching, Buddha is an infallible soul. And Dharma is also his message of that.
That is the message of the Buddha Shakyamuni or Buddha.
His teaching is best upon the non-volence and as well as compassion, loving kindness, for all the
living beings.
There is no discrimination between, regardless of karma that we go through, but on that, the
teaching and the nature is the same.
Buddha gives the same teaching to everyone, accorded their desires, accorded their cup of blood in
order to lead this enlightenment.
And the Sangha members who follow that path, and practice their courage and commitment and
determination,
they are the source of our inspirations.
To the Sangha members, we learn. We learn patience. We learn courage. We learn commitment.
And we learn loving kindness, compassion, and teaching. They are supporting us and we support them.
We support each other moving along the path.
They are long last our companions until we become the enlightenment.
Therefore, without understanding, then we trust this.
So, that is like what? So, when we practice again, as I said, we need two.
The first is the physical support and the second is then faith, or the devotion.
With that, we take refuge, refuge with faith.
And according to Mahayana, not just only faith that we take refuge, but also we take refuge with
compassion too.
Thinking of all the sentient beings, really I'd like to help everyone.
Therefore, I'm going to learn teaching and practice.
I'm going to make close coordination to the Buddha, Dharma, Sanghas.
So, with that, then you take refuge.
And then next one, so that is really about this sixth line.
Seventh line is what? Now, having this and the word.
And do not be mistaken about the result of the virtuous and unvirtuous actions.
And this is now, generally again, when you take the refuge, when you follow the teaching,
then we should also should have good, as I said earlier, or in the Buddha teaching,
or as I said, a good ground of the conduct or the moralities.
That is really very, very important. Good conduct, good morality, more with common sense,
more sensible, more thoughtful, more thoughtful. Therefore, if we keep that,
then we are keeping quite good conduct, good morality lined up.
And how to do that? That is in the equivalent teaching, say, be mindfulness.
Mindfulness, alertness, and consciousness.
Those three are the very best support, best teacher for our activities, actions.
And here, again, what in the teaching said here?
Do not, his whole journey which is virtuous and unvirtuous actions, actions.
So, actually, this said, therefore, we should not mistakenly, that we have to be careful.
We should be careful or very thoughtful with our actions.
This is also virtuous and unvirtuous, which can be named as positive or negatives.
This positive, negative way is coming. It is not from outside, again.
It starts from our own mind. This positive and negative is also known as karma.
And a larger name, it is. Another name, it is positive truths.
Again, suffering truths, the cause of suffering truths.
This positive truths, what the great teacher Buddha gave.
So, now, since we are following the positive truths, positive truths,
we should know more clearly what is the obstacle for our positive truths.
The positive truths mean we are following the path, we are advancing.
If we undermine our positive truths with our old habit patterns
or our mundane habit patterns, then even if we are following the positive truths,
we are completely undermining, we dilute, we become pouring to the ditch or the site.
Therefore, we should always be very thoughtful with our actions.
When we have good thoughts, we are thoughtful with our actions.
That is morality. And when we are thoughtful, what is developed?
It develops more common sense, more gentle, more peaceful, more calm,
more really soothing to our heart and mind.
And also that energy will help to your friend or our friend,
our family member, to others too. It will reflect that.
Therefore, how we started that? We have to start from our mind.
Here I say the virtues and unvirtues. Of course, you all know this.
What the great master again, of course, is Buddha's teaching.
The great master Nagarjuna said, "What are virtues? Wisdom and detachment, compassion, those are
virtues."
"Macha, madhe, mohmi" or as translated, "wisdom and detachment and compassion."
That is positive. That is the virtues.
If we think the virtues or the positive, good things, that is right with our heart, in our trade.
We have to pour or we have to revere. We have to revere.
Every revere, the wisdom, wisdom is not just one's pieces.
There is infinite wisdom in our trade or our state of the mind of the infinite or the Buddha nature
.
It has infinite. When you revere, the detachment is not just one's time and gone.
You are revering more. The treasures begin to overflowing really as much as you open.
That much is overcoming. As much as you will start to be compassionate once, that much your
compassion will grow.
Loving kindness will come. All those beautiful abundance are really arising.
When it arises in our heart, then what is going up to all our system, our physical, our verbal?
All those are transforming now into wisdom, detachment and compassion, loving kindness activities.
When that reflects externally, it is positive actions, good things.
And that which is known as then in the Buddha teaching, good karma.
Creating good karma is following the path, a symbol I will say, following the path.
Path, you are reversing. You are reversing or we are uprooting our old habit pattern,
which is suffering truth or cause of suffering truth.
We are undermining. We are revealing that goodness. So that is what it is.
On the other hand, what is the negatives or unvirtues is the same.
It is opposite of those three, what we discussed. And which is ignorance, attachment and anger.
Those are the unvirtues and negatives. They are also another name.
They are the causes of suffering truth.
Why here, Guruji's teacher Buddha used truth or suffering truth?
Because when we go through these sufferings, it is really, even though it has nothing kind of solid
source,
but it fills truth. We go through those uncomfortable pains.
Therefore, it is called suffering truth.
Cause of suffering truth is also, there is no substantial existence in this emotion.
You can hold and say, "Oh, hi, this is anger. This is ignorance. This is worship."
There is nothing that we can tell, but when it arises that magic, that show,
it really created the uncomfortable, truly that we can see nobody can ignore or deny.
Therefore, it is truth. It is truth. It is happening.
It is like, for that reason, many times in teaching, it is like a nightmare, like situation.
Even there is no solid existence by our own mistake, by our own habitus patens.
Truly, we are experienced. We are going through that, that turbulence, turbulence.
Therefore, it is truth, suffering.
Is there suffering truth? Cause of suffering truth.
So, this, in order to avoid this, then here, say, be thoughtful with actions.
All actions, even the smallest good things, shouldn't think,
"Oh, it doesn't, it is not, it doesn't meet, or it is not too much."
You should not, we should not think.
In the teaching, even the smallest good activity with your good heart,
reflect me with the love and the compassion. When we worship them, it is good.
It is good. It will be an enormous result.
Not just a result, one time in the teaching said, "It has ten reactions."
Really in the teaching, same way, even in the smallest and negative activities.
Same thing, we shouldn't think, "Oh, that's okay. It's not a big deal."
We shouldn't think that. Be thoughtful.
Every action is that.
Then we become, ourselves, more wise, more practical, more sensible.
And that will create more harmony, more friendships, friendships.
And then we can stay this life with happy, with joy and peace.
And leave this world with happy and joy, joy in some degree, fulfillment that we have.
Then, wonderful. That all starts with ourselves.
It is not going to start from outside.
As the greatest teacher of the Buddha, here, came and said,
"I gave you the teaching, or I gave you the skill and the method,
but we have to put that in the actions."
So, therefore, here, after you take refuge in the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha,
and with confidence and joy and compassion,
then the next one, what?
The following part is always thoughtful with our actions.
Thoughtful with our actions.
And we become more thoughtful with our actions and avoiding negative activities.
We should be happy and joy.
We should acknowledge ourselves, "Oh, I am doing quite good."
"I did yesterday quite good, and I am doing today also quite good."
And have some relief of the commitment and attitude that, "I will do good tomorrow too."
May that happen by the blessings of Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
Really thinking of that, kind of setting up our commitment and that goal,
setting up, that is known as practicing Dharma.
We practice, not just take refuge and then just drop things.
We add one thing. We are building up the momentum.
Then we really, really take off. So nice and beautiful.
Fully to benefit ourselves to the others.
At the same time as the negative activities, something happening,
and immediately trying to acknowledge that, "Oh, something happened.
Something I did with your friend, with your family."
Or something that you just, ever it catches by the mindfulness at that time.
Then excuse, forgive. Those are really good.
Good, excuse, forgive. And some relief of the thing, "Oh, I should not do that."
"I am not good." "It is not good for me." "It is not good for my family or others."
"I should not do that." "Should not do that."
"Should not that happen yesterday or last week?"
"And I am not going to today, and I will not do it tomorrow."
That also by the blessings of the Buddha and the Buddha Dharma Sangha,
all the enlightened beings, I prefer that goal.
Kind of having those attentional thought, creating a little bit on your own,
our own agenda in a way, creating. That is practicing and that is also practical.
Practical. Kind of with that, then good developing that.
So, and the next one is again, now, from now on, is following the path.
So now, we are following the path. Next one is, what?
Here. This is full wealth of the Dharma or spiritual.
Full wealth of the spiritual. Those full wealth.
And which is what? Wealth. W-E-A-L-T-H.
Wealth or the treasles? Full treasles of the practitioners.
This we should always have this wealth. Every time, really we should have.
If we have this full, what listed here, along with all those teachings, what is said,
then our spiritual is become so rich, not kind of drying up.
Many times, practically we do with excitement, joy and appreciation.
But then kind of time goes on, since we don't really kind of reactivate our abundances,
then it's almost kind of getting fading away.
Become kind of like weaker and weaker and weaker.
And then, yes, it becomes almost kind of boring.
Boring, there is no kind of like any things happening.
Why that happened? Because our wealth is going down.
This wealth, this full wealth is going down.
And therefore, activated this full wealth.
It's not this wealth is going to come from outside.
It's like, what they call stock market, all those things.
It's not really going to come out.
It is, we have to activate it ourselves.
Ourself, we have the right capabilities, right authority, right freedom, right things to do.
We have to reach.
When we have this full wealth, our heart will be so rich.
Even maybe externally, there is some difficult troubles.
But really, I think we will stay quite happy in the joy.
According to teaching, according to those great masters or great practitioners
who demonstrated that.
And many times, those great practitioners who had so difficult troubles,
even they are staying in some kind of like, what's called,
they are not accidentally or some wrong reason,
they put so many kind of troubles, precious, by the authorities, all that.
But their heart is really full, full of hope,
happy in the joy, in peace, peace and loving-kindness, really is happening.
So, therefore, these four are so important and all the practitioners,
and since we all practitioners and we like to give our practice
a rich and a strong and a prosperous status,
those are, these four are really so important.
And I remember that.
I think he has his own dungeon, we sit here.
And those are, what?
Can you see the first is devotion to the teacher, all root teachers.
And then love and affection towards the Samayat brothers and sisters, second.
And the third is bodhicata of compassion towards all the mother-centered beings.
And the fourth is the reduction of the grasping due to the knowledge
that all compounded things are impermanent.
These four are treasures here, for that reason, here, what he is eliciting.
And they are known as the four everlasting wealths of the practitioners
and should be regarded as indispensable.
So, those are the four, four treasures.
And, of course, generally you all know this.
This is not new, but it is highlight in that.
That is what we need, we highlight.
Highlight and activate, recognize and cherish with this, this four.
And the devotions and affection or the affection to the brothers and sisters
of the Dharma or Sangha members.
And then bodhicata, all the beings, and then understanding of the impermanent.
Those are the four that generally we all heard and we know that.
And so, but now today, I think that is my teaching, so I am going to stop here.
And then next time, I am going to continue this teaching.
As we did last time, and I will go over these things.
And, of course, you already know this, but you can read the meaning of those things.
In many books, they translate now in English or many different languages.
And you can read, and those are such words of my perfect teachers.
And then many great masters, they are really teaching.
There are so many, and that is the bodhis, great master, Shanti Deva's teaching,
bodhis, sattva, charya, avatara, guide to the way and the life of the bodhis, sattva.
All those teachings are so wonderful and beautiful.
There are many others, so you can learn and you can read and reverse.
And thank you very much again, everyone, for your participation and thank you.
Now we do the healing practices.
As I said, this healing practice is the healing practice of all difficult situations now,
what we are going through, but as well as all the emotions and negative ideas.
So, really we do these practices and this healing practices, which are ojimela practices.
Now, this ojimela practices, you have this booklet, page 1, you will open.
This time we will chant one time seven line prayers.
And then just go to this teaching, this practice.